---
title: "Benefits of Muscle Body Stick"
slug: "benefits-muscle-body-stick"
categories:
  - "uncategorized"
seoTitle: "Benefits of Muscle Body Stick"
seoDescription: "The Stick help all soft tissue injuries. In terms of common injuries, The Stick is particularly useful for treating muscle pain, strains, stress, spasm, tension, cramping, trigger points, preventing fatigue and increasing muscle tone"
featuredImage: "/images/2016/09/bursite-oleo-de-sucupira-mundo-dos-oleos-726x400-1.png"
---

<p><a href="https://fitmus-sport.com/product/elite-massage-roller-stick/" target="_blank">The body Stick</a> is a small, lightweight, easy-to-use, practical self-massage tool.</p>
<p>The Stick can help all soft tissue injuries. In terms of common injuries, The Stick is particularly useful for treating muscle pain, strains, stress, spasm, tension, cramping, trigger points, preventing fatigue and increasing muscle tone. The Stick has been used for strains, shin splints, plantar fasciitis, increasing flexibility, strength and endurance.</p>
<p>The Stick predicts and prevents muscle injuries. Basically where there is a muscle, The Stick can treat it. By rolling over your muscles you will be able to identify trigger points and sore spots. The Stick is used as a dynamic- reactive instrument where it’s mechanical features are designed to segmentally compress and stretch muscles.</p>
<p><a href="https://fitmus-sport.com/product/muscle-roller-stick/" target="_blank">The body Stick </a>is a huge benefit for athletes and non-athletes. Athletes in particular use The Stick as a warm-up and cool-down tool. They also use it as a therapeutic device. Specifically, The Stick rolls out muscles providing myofascial release and trigger point therapy. A typical warm-up would be about 20 progressively deeper rolling passes over the desired muscle groups. This will help the athlete warm-up by increasing blood flow and circulation. It also aids in getting the muscle tissue to “wake up” and be ready for activity.</p>
<p><a href="https://fitmus-sport.com/product/muscle-massage-body-stick/" target="_blank">By using The body Stick </a>as a warm-up tool, athletes can identify problem areas and spend a little more time on those areas. As a cool-down tool, the Stick helps to flush and cool down muscles. The athlete simply rolls out their desired muscle groups. As a therapeutic device The Stick is used to break down trigger points, relieve pain, increase range of motion, promote flexibility and accelerate the recovery process.</p>
<p>The Stick is used by your hands instead of body weight. You can use it in a standing, sitting, crouching, kneeling or even a grounded position. You do not need to go to the ground to use it. Basically, if you can relax your muscle, you can roll out. No special equipment is needed. You can roll out anywhere and anytime. The Stick travels with ease. Another benefit is you have 100% control over The Stick. You decide on the amount of pressure you will roll out your muscles with. The Stick is waterproof. The beautiful thing about this device is one size does not fit all! There are many models to choose from based on your body composition. To wrap things up, there are 5 independent studies that support the use of The Stick.</p>
<p><a href="https://fitmus-sport.com/product/fitness-muscle-roller-stick-18/" target="_blank">The Newest model of The body Stick</a> is called The Hybrid Stick. It is a Stick with medium flexibility with a spindle in the middle of it to pinpoint trigger points with amazing accuracy. In fact, The Hybrid Stick is the Stick that has caught on faster and has had more sales than any other Stick that was introduced to the market.</p>