---
title: "Body Pump is the most successful group fitness program"
slug: "body-pump-is-the-most-successful-group-fitness-program"
categories:
  - "uncategorized"
seoTitle: "Body Pump is the most successful group fitness program"
seoDescription: "Body Pump is the most successful group fitness program in the history of fitness, the most influential sporting body in the world,"
featuredImage: "/images/2016/11/body-pump-weight.jpg"
---

<p><a href="https://fitmus-sport.com/product/body-pump-barbell-set-20kg/" target="_blank">Body Pump</a> is the most successful group fitness program in the history of fitness,&nbsp;the most influential sporting body in the world, and one of the most popular in MILLS.&nbsp;It broke the men in the fitness will rarely have the opportunity to participate in the group gymnastics situation, attracting a large number of simple and effective non-dance movement to practice the men.</p>
<p>Its role is to quickly improve muscle endurance and muscle strength, consume a lot of calories, sculpture the perfect body lines, but also can increase bone density, prevention of osteoporosis, improve endocrine, improve the body’s immunity. Adjustable weight of the barbell to adapt to different age, gender and physical person</p>
<p>This is a challenge filled with fun sports, greater weight, more difficult moves, more difficult to achieve the number of … … full of change, passion, fashion dynamic music, in the sweat, boosting cries, To experience their muscles, vital capacity, strength and rapid changes in the whole body, which is a stimulus to enjoy. No wonder Body Pump will be known as the most rapid changes in physical movement.<br>
In this case,</p>
<p><a href="https://fitmus-sport.com/product/body-pump-barbell-set-20kg/" target="_blank">Body Pump training</a> to the strength of the endurance system part of the training, focusing on the ability to adjust the muscles, so that the trainees get the best results. Body Pump uses different types of movement, so that a particular muscle group or a group of muscle groups from light to intermediate resistance, in a continuous group need to repeat the same action highly. Body Pump weight training can make the participants to improve the quality of muscle and body shape. Although the effect of muscle growth during training is not as pronounced as that of pure strength, untrained people can see significant effects within 8-12 weeks of training.</p>
<p>Control strength is a major advantage of Body Pump training. Beginners will usually get a noticeable effect in the first few months of fitness, but it will be difficult to improve in the future. In the Body Pump training, just constantly increasing the weight, the exerciser can continue to adapt to the process of continuous change in load. Therefore, the exerciser can not only get results in the first month, but also in the next month there will be further results.</p>
<p>New participants or untrained persons should adopt a relatively conservative weight during the adaptation phase and be aware of the correct motor skills. Although repetition of a specific muscle load during Body Pump training is a physical and psychological challenge for the exerciser, the exerciser must strictly follow the rules and not take advantage of the rules to ensure the safety of the exercise.<br>
Easy to learn, become the starting point to enhance strength and self-confidence. Rhythmic music and innovative action choreography, complete with 1 hour of practice. In the warm, exciting atmosphere of physical exercise, for each want to strength training and aerobic training combined with the people.</p>
<p>Body Pump is a combination of barbell and aerobics exercise. Adjustable weight for different age groups, gender and physical person. You can quickly improve the muscle endurance and muscle strength, consume a lot of calories, sculpture the perfect body lines. But also can increase bone density, prevent osteoporosis, improve endocrine, improve human immunity.</p>
<p>Aerobic barbell gymnastics in English means “body charge.” It consists of the appropriate weight, passionate music, strong will and loud cry. It not only can speed up the metabolism of the practitioner speed, burn fat quickly, but also exercise the endurance of practitioners, improve self-confidence.</p>
<p>Speaking of barbell, people will think of weightlifting, in fact, the two have the same purpose. Looks like the barbell is a force-based fitness program, but also in the barbell exercises, 5 kg, 10 kg, 2.5 kg and other levels of barbell tablets can choose, in fact this is a low intensity, but very Interesting exercise, the entire movement of the practitioner in the barbell and music accompaniment to complete. In the training process, each person according to their physical condition to choose a different weight of the barbell film. Whether it is usually a lack of exercise, petite, thin white-collar female body, or a strong body of girls, can lift it to the top and repeated exercises. For urban white-collar women, barbell gymnastics is also an easy to accept the fitness program.</p>