---
title: "Jump Ropes for CrossFit"
slug: "jump-ropes-crossfit"
categories:
  - "uncategorized"
seoTitle: "Jump Ropes for CrossFit"
seoDescription: "Skipping rope or jump rope is a tool used in the sport of jump rope where one or more participants jump over a rope swung so that it passes under their feet"
featuredImage: "/images/2017/03/Skipping-Rope-Crossfit-Rope-Speed-Jump-Rope.jpg"
---

<p>A <a href="https://fitmus-sport.com/products/speed-agility-wire-jump-rope/" target="_blank">skipping rope or jump rope</a> is a tool used in the sport of jump rope where one or more participants jump over a rope swung so that it passes under their feet and over their heads. There are multiple subsets of <a href="https://fitmus-sport.com/product/premium-speed-cable-jump-rope/" target="_blank">jump rope</a> including: single freestyle, single speed, pairs, three person speed (double dutch), and three person freestyle (double dutch freestyle).</p>
<p><a href="https://fitmus-sport.com/product/skipping-speed-rope/" target="_blank">Jumping rope, or skipping</a> is an awesome workout and a standard favorite within the CrossFit world but, how do you find the best jump ropes for CrossFit? While jumping rope is a relative simple exercise, not all jump ropes are created equal and in this article, we’re going to show you why and help you know what to look for when buying your next rope.</p>
<p>A quality jump rope is one of the most important pieces of equipment for CrossFit training. Jumping rope is a super effective functional exercise which is while you’ll see it used in the training regimens of so many athletes in such a variety of sports, not just CrossFit WODs. Jump rope training targets speed, balance, agility, dexterity, coordination, endurance and concentration. It’s an excellent cardio workout and also builds shoulder strength and is great for your legs.</p>
<p><a href="https://fitmus-sport.com/product/elite-crossfit-speed-jump-rope/" target="_blank">The double under </a>– whipping the rope under your feet twice while in mid jump – is the classic CrossFit exercise when it comes to jumping rope as it marks both muscular strength and cardio endurance. For CrossFitters training to improve their double unders and even those just starting out with single jumps, the right rope for your body and workout styles will make all the difference.</p>
<p>There are four basic key points to think about when you’re first looking through the jump rope store.<br>
1. Length<br>
Essentially, taller people need longer ropes. The two things to consider when looking at the length of a jump rope for CrossFit is the static rope length and the dynamic rope length. The static length is how long the rope is when it’s not being used and dynamic is the range of length the rope covers when you’re jumping. Dynamic rope length will depend on your body size and the exercise you’re doing, so when choosing your new jump rope for CrossFit training, you’ll be focusing on static length.</p>
<p>2. Weight<br>
The second basic thing to look for when buying a jump rope for CrossFit is the weight of the rope. Beginners will have better luck learning the moves with a thicker cable and heavier rope. A heavy jump rope cable moves more slowly so you have more control over the movement of the cable which allows you to build your coordination and skill. Because the rope moves slower, you’ll also be doing fewer jumps to a slower rhythm, so if you’re hitting around ten or less double unders or trying double unders for the first time, a thick and heavy rope is your best choice.</p>
<p>3. Material<br>
One you’ve figured out how long your ideal rope is and the weight of rope you’ll need for your personalized CrossFit training, the third key point you’ll be also thinking about the rope material. There are plastic, vinyl cord, rubber tube and nylon ropes; those made of traditional rope or leather; beaded jump ropes with plastic sheaths for weight; and there are also steel cable types of jump rope. The type of rope you choose will depend on what you need it for within your training, as well as your overall size and body condition.</p>
<p>Jump ropes for CrossFit are also available with thin metal cables. These thin wire cables move incredibly fast so before considering buying one, you’ll need to be approaching at least 100 consecutive double unders. Another thing to consider when using wire jump ropes is these things seriously sting if they hit your feet, so wearing shoes while jumping is highly recommended to avoid getting hurt.</p>
<p>4. Handle<br>
Whether you choose plastic or wood, you’ll be looking for two things – the first is the way the rope connects to the handle and the second is ball bearings. The best jump ropes for all fitness levels will have a swivel mechanism attachment that allows the rope to rotate freely from the handle.Having a rope rotating freely reduces this common point of wear and tear and will help you get more out of your new jump rope.</p>
<p>Jump ropes with ball bearing weighted handles are the best choice for CrossFitters moving from beginning to intermediate levels – though beginners can use them too – and are an absolute must for advanced jumpers. The ball bearings within the jump rope handles evenly distribute the weight of the rope throughout the rope’s rotation and allows for a smoother movement, which all translates into easier and more efficient jumping for you.</p>
<p>jumping rope is such an awesome part of CrossFit training and we’ve seen some things to consider when looking for a rope to match your needs</p>