---
title: "How much money can you make owning a CrossFit gym?"
slug: "much-money-can-make-owning-crossfit-gym"
categories:
  - "uncategorized"
seoTitle: "How much money can you make owning a CrossFit gym?"
seoDescription: "How much money can you make owning a CrossFit gym?These days, more and more people are discovering that they can’t get enough rope climbing"
featuredImage: "/images/2017/12/How-much-money-can-you-make-owning-a-CrossFit-gym-2.jpg"
---

<p>CrossFit has revolutionised the fitness industry worldwide and has opened the doors for many to follow a dream and own their own business where they positively changed the lives of people on a daily basis. The allure of owning your own <a href="/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">CrossFit box</a> is one which is obvious, with more than 10,000 affiliates registered worldwide. However, is there more to it and is owning a CrossFit box a good business choice?</p>
<p>There are many types who start a CrossFit box – ex personal trainers, exercise scientists, sports coaches, etc. One common occurrence is that often members turn into part-time coaches and then seek to open their own <a href="/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">CrossFit box</a> somewhere down the line. The other type of potential box owner are businessmen ready to make an easy buck through potentially cheap investment. The outlook many have is that a CrossFit box as a business which looks seemingly easy to start, run and own, and it seems relatively inexpensive to start. The truth is that it’s not all that easy and it can be an expensive lesson, especially if done wrong and for the wrong reasons.</p>
<p>Technically, to open a <a href="/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">CrossFit box</a> all you require is to have passed your CrossFit Level One Trainer course and to register and pay the affiliation fee with CrossFit HQ – they’ll obviously check that you’re not registering an existing name of have any other issues which may stop them from issuing your affiliation (e.g. any prior misuse of the CrossFit brand, etc.).</p>
<p>To become a certified Level 1 trainer, members sign up for a weekend workshop, which costs $1,000, and CrossFit runs around 15 seminars each weekend focusing on safely and properly performing workout techniques. Once trainers are certified, they’re able to open their own personal CrossFit box while the company collects an annual $3,000 for licensing purposes. The opportunity is an attractive one for many who want to teach what they love doing. Since CrossFit is not a franchise, there are no rules or regulations in opening a gym. The startup costs (basically just the $1,000 certification fee, $3,000 annual licensing fee, and property rent) are relatively low and the recommended equipment is “whatever you can muster” based on the FAQ section for affiliates on CrossFit’s website.</p>
<p>For those interested in opening up a <a href="/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">CrossFit Box</a>, again, there are no rules or regulations, but below are a few simple guidelines to opening — and running — a successful gym:</p>
<p>1. Sign up for a workshop and pay $1,000 to become certified as a Level 1 trainer.</p>
<p>2. Pay the $3,000 annual licensing fee to CrossFit.</p>
<p>3. Find a convenient location to open your gym. Consider starting out with a smaller gym so that you don’t become overwhelmed while trying to grow your business.</p>
<p>4. Determine what to charge members. According to box owners, remember that you’re a speciality gym so charge speciality gym prices. Standard membership prices tend to range from $100 to $200 per month.</p>
<p>5. Specialty classes will set you apart from the competition. People will go to your gym because of the classes you offer and coaches you employ. While CrossFit boxes don’t really try to compete with one another, D’Amico says sometimes they have to because it’s, ultimately, a business, but he’s never seen “anyone compete in a nasty way.”</p>
<p>6. When you’re ready to hire, make sure you find good employees and coaches who will help build your business. Coaches are paid between $15 to $35 per hour, according to this Reddit post, and this owner and head coach paid himself $25 per hour for coaching.</p>
<p>7. Use social media to involve members and market your gym. Since CrossFit revolves so much around community, their marketing practices reflect that, says D’Amico, relying on word-of-mouth and social media.</p>
<p>8. Keep track of all of your expenses to determine how long it’ll take for you to turn a profit. A CrossFitter suggests using this program.</p>
<p>9. Financially, outfitting your CrossFit box initially needs to be carefully planned. We’re not talking about just getting equipment from the best source, but getting the best equipment from the right suppliers, Fitmus is the leading manufacturer of <a href="/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">crossfit gym fitness equipment</a> with <a href="/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">functional training equpment</a> at the right price and in the right quantities. you’ll be on the right track to ensure you’ve got the best chance at starting a successful CrossFit box.</p>
<p>Lastly,To become a financial success, your CrossFit box can’t just offer basic weekly training either. You need to offer extra services, like lifestyle challenges, speciality programmes (like barbell or gymnastics clubs), social events, support and host events, and you need to be prepared for the constant early mornings and late nights.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>— Copy by</p>